+++
date = "2016-01-03T23:26:53+08:00"
description = "AngularJS 2.0 building blocks explained"
keywords = ["angularjs"]
tags = ["angularjs", "javascript"]
categories = ["code"]
title = "AngularJS 2.0 building blocks explained"
+++

Let's explain the eight building blocks of any Angular 2 app:

1. Module
2. Component
3. Template
4. Metadata
5. Data Binding
6. Directive
7. Service
8. Dependency Injection


# Module

- Optional feature
- Useful if you are using TypeScript which allows you to use `interface` or `classes`
- `export class AppComponent` is like saying that this class is going to be public
- Use relative file paths for importing modules

Component class is something you'd export from a module.


# Component

Components controls Views

- Logic to support the view can be inside a class
- Angular creates/destroys components as user moves through UI

# Template

A form of HTML that describes how to render the Component. It looks mostly like HTML syntax except if you add Angular keywords in them. 


# Metadata

Some ***`@Component`*** configuration options:

- `selector`: css selector to be applied to that html element
- `templateUrl`: address of the component itself
- `directives`: array of components/directives that this component itself requires to function properly
- `providers`: an array of *dependency injection providers* for *services*


# Data Binding

Following are the four possible ways of data binding:

```html
<div>{{hero.name}}</div>
<hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></hero-detail>
<div (click)="selectHero(hero)"></div>
<input [(ngModel)]="hero.name">
```

1. The "interpolation" displays the component's hero.name property value within the <div> tags
2. The `[hero]` property binding passes the `selectedHero` from the parent `HeroListComponent` to the hero property of the child `HeroDetailComponent`
3. The `(click)` event binding calls the Component's `selectHero` method when the user clicks on a hero's name
4. Two way data binding combines property and event binding in a single notation using `ngModel` directive


# Directive

Class with directive metadata. Even Components are directives - directive with templates. 
Two other examples are:

1. `Structural`: They alter layout by adding, removing, and replacing elements in DOM
2. `Attributes`: Attribute directives alter the appearance or behavior of an existing element. In templates they look like regular HTML attributes, hence the name

**Example:**

The `ngModel` directive, which implements two-way data binding, is an example of an attribute directive.

```html
<input [(ngModel)]="hero.name">
```

**Other examples:** ngSwitch, ngStyle, ngClass

# Service

It can be any value, function or feature that works well.

# Dependency Injection
A way to supply a new class instance with all the requirements. In TypeScript this can be achieved by providing everything inside the constructor.

An `Injector` maintains a list of service instances it has created previously so that it can reuse those if needed. The way it achieves this is by utilizing `provider` which is used within each `Component`.


